___
# Network Policy Types
- Network Policies allow users to define what traffic is permitted in a Kubernetes cluster.
- Traditional firewalls permit or deny traffic based on destination IP address and ports but Kubernetes is a dynamic enviroment where IP changes frequently so Cilium uses Kubernetes identity informaion to such as label selectors, namespace names and domain names for defining rules about what traffic is permitter and disallowed.
- Cilium agent watches Kubernetes API server for updates in network policy and than loads necessary eBPF programs and maps to ensure the desired network policy is implemented.
- Cilium supports three network policy formates:
	- Standerd Kubernetes **NetworkPolicy** resorce for layer 3 and 4.
	- **CiliumNetworkPolicy** resource which supports layer 3, 4 and 7.
	- **CiliumClusterWideNetworkPolicy** that span over entire cluster.
- CiliumNetworkPolicy is a superset of Standerd Kubernetes NetworkPolicy.
## NetworkPolicy Resources
- It is a standerd Kubernetes resource that control traffic flow at IP and port level.
- Its capabilities include:
	- L3/L4 Ingress and Egress policy using label matching.
	- L3 IP/CIDR Ingress and Egress policy using IP/CIDR for cluster external endpoints.
	- L4 TCP and ICMP port Ingress and Egress policy.
## CiliumNetworkPolicy Resources
- [CiliumNetworkPolicy](https://docs.cilium.io/en/latest/security/policy/) is an extension of the standard NetworkPolicy.
- Its capabilities include:
	- L7 HTTP protocol policy rules, limiting Ingress and Egress to specific HTTP paths.
	- Support for additional L7 protocols such as DNS, Kafka and gRPC.
	- Service name based Egress policy for internal cluster communications.
	- L3/L4 Ingress and Egress policy using Entity matching for special entities.
	- L3 Ingress and Egress policy using DNS FQDN matching.
- [networkpolicy.io](https://editor.networkpolicy.io/)  is a visual policy editor tool.
### L7 CiliumNetworkPolicy Capabilities
- In CiliumNetworkPolicy it's possible to craft protocol specific L7 policy for different protocols, including HTTP, Kafka, and DNS.
- The Layer 7 policy rules extend the Layer 4 policy **toPorts** section for both ingress and egress.
### L7 HTTP Policy
- When any L7 HTTP policy is active for any endpoint running on a node, the Cilium agent on that node will start an embedded local only HTTP proxy service and the eBPF programs will be instructed to forward packets on to that local HTTP proxy.
-  The HTTP proxy is responsible for interpreting the L7 network policy rules and forwarding the packet further if appropriate.
- HTTP proxy can use following feilds to match network traffic:
	- `path` Matched against URL path if empty all requests paths are allowed.
	- `method` Matched against HTTP method if ommited all methods are allowed.
	- `host` Matched against host header of a request if empty all hosts are allowed.
	- `headers` A list of HTTP headers that must be present in the request. If omitted or empty, requests are allowed regardless of the headers present.
	- The `rules` block holds the L7 policy logic that extends the L4 ingress policy.
		```YAML
		apiVersion: "cilium.io/v2"  
		kind: CiliumNetworkPolicy  
		metadata:  
		  name: "l7-rule"  
		spec:  
		  endpointSelector:  
		    matchLabels:  
		      app: myService  
		  ingress:  
		  - toPorts:  
		    - ports:  
		      - port: '80'  
		        protocol: TCP  
		      rules:  
		        http:  
		        - method: GET  
		          path: "/v1/path1"  
		        - method: PUT  
		          path: "/v2/path2.*"  
		        - method: POST  
		          path: ".*/path3"  
		          headers:  
		          - 'X-My-Header: true'  
		```
	- `GET /v1/path1` This matches the exact path"/v1/path1".
	- `PUT /v2/path2.*` This matches all paths starting with "/v2/path2".
	- `POST .*/path3` This matches all paths ending in "/path3" with the additional constraint that the HTTP header X-My-Header must be set to true.